# Project
Final Project for CS50
# YOUR PROJECT TITLE: CSCP Tennis Ranking
#### Video Demo:  <URL https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VVkDfBnXBNk>
#### Description:
In satisfaction of the requirement of completing a final project for the C50S course, I decided to create a software to promote the practice of tennis in my local club in Balcarce, Buenos Aires, Argentina. The software has a website as its visible face. There, club tennis players can first register and then place and receive tennis match challenges. The results of these matches feed a rating system that becomes a visible ranking of club tennis players. According to the experiences I have heard in informal conversations, there are clubs where the possibility of challenging other club members (not necessarily acquainted) and the existence of rankings has proved to serve to promote the practice of the sport. Players get an additional motivation and new matches that would never have taken place otherwise are played, allowing the tennis club to see an increase in its members' participation helping to counteract against what seems to be a secular decline of people in clubs' activities.

The ranking is based on the Elo rating system, which is a method for calculating the relative skill of players in zero sum games. This system was originally invented by the Physics Professor Arpad Elo and is well known to be used by chess associations to rank their players. It has been used to rank players in other sports and would work perfectly to rate and rank tennis players in any club or associations. The amount of points that the winner of a match gains depends on the probability that this player had to win the match before it is played. So, if an upset occurs, the underdog will gain a lot more points than if he/she won a game he/she was supposed to win.

Behind the visible website, the software I designed and implemented for the final project is based on three SQL databases or tables. These are called users, game and ranking. The users table has the information that characterizes each individual player. The fields include its name, password, sex, email, and the user ID. This user ID central to identify each player and to complete the computations needed to register the matches results and to update and publish the ranking in the website. The game table is used to document every challenge that occurs through the website. The same table has the user ID of both players involved in the challenge when the match is established; then the status of the match, and finally the winner and the defeated player of the match. Finally, the ranking table has the user ID of each player, their sex and the number of points this player has. The rating of the players is defined by these points.

To be able to register to this website a person first has to be a member of the club (whose name acronym is CSCP which states for Club Social y Campo de Pato; in English it would be Social Club and Duck Field, and the Duck in the name refers to the Argentine National Sport “Duck”; the sport is played by 4 players each side that mounted on horses and through passes and combinations, seek to elude rivals and bring the duck (a ball with handles) to a big hoop placed horizontally and the end of each field side).

I mostly wrote the website development code in Python, and I use HTML to display the user’s information. The first page that a prospect contending will see is the registration template. There, the player will have to insert its full name, sex, email, password and confirmation of password. Each player is identified by their email, so no email can be used twice. After this is successfully done, the player is registered in both the users and ranking table. This function is based on the register function given to me in week 9 of the course.

If a player already has an account, he will access the login tab. In the python function login the inserted email and password are checked against the field already available in the users table. The function is also based on one that was given to students in problem set 9.

Once the user is logged in, he will have five tabs to navigate through. The first one is called “Tu CSCP”, and it is the homepage. When this function is called, it uses the information given from the game table. It checks if the player' user ID has challenged anybody else or if he/she has been challenged. The information collected in this process is stored in different libraries. Then through an HTML template, the matches are displayed in two different tables. One shows all the matches where he/she has challenged someone else, and the other one where someone else has challenged this user.

The “Ranking” tab shows all the players in the system with the same sex, ordered by the number of points everyone has, from highest to lowest. This is done by accessing the ranking SQL table filteredby sex.

The following tab is called “Desafiar”. In this function the user has a drop-down menu displaying all the players in the system with their same sex. Here, he/she can select a player to challenge and establish a day and time for the game to take place. After the challenge is sent, the user ID of the challenger and challenged are entered into the game table and the status is “Waiting”.

In the “Desafios” tab, the logged-in user is able to see if anyone has challenged him. If he has been challenged, he is able to see the challenger's name, when the game should be played and he will be asked if he wants to accept or decline the challenge. After his response is sent in the game table, the status changes to “Accepted” or “Declined”, depending on the case.

Finally, in the “Resultados” tab, a player who had received a challenge inserts the winner of the match. After this is done the game table is updated to “Finished” and the user ID of the winner is inserted. Also, the ranking is updated for both players using the Elo equations. Depending on the difference in the pre-match ratings of the players who played the challenge match, there will be an updated rating for each of the two players. The new ratings are updated in the ranking SQL table.

This website has many aspects that I consider that can be improved.  However, I am very happy with what I accomplished after taking this course. I appreciate for the opportunity that the course gave me
